Author - Vignesh

Install Icinga on Centos7 - Server monitoring tool

DOCUMENTS FOLLOWED:

PRE-INSTALLATION SETUP:

Initially network connection is enabled, after installation of os.
This is done by changing permission YES from NO on option ONBOOT
Location of file edited is /etc/sysconfig/network-scripts/ifcfg-ens33

COMMANDS: . The following commands are used to configure icinga2 in CENTOS 7.

  yum install https://packages.icinga.com/epel/icinga-rpm-release-7-latest.noarch.rp                                                                                                          
  noarch.rpm
  yum install epel-release
  yum install icinga2
  systemctl enable icinga2
  systemctl start icinga2
  systemctl status icinga2
  icinga2 feature list
  yum install nagios-plugins-all
  systemctl enable icinga2
  systemctl start icinga2
  systemctl status icinga2
  yum install icinga2-selinux
  yum install vim-icinga2
  yum install nano-icinga2
  systemctl status icinga2
  yum install mariadb-server mariadb
  systemctl enable mariadb
  systemctl start mariadb
  systemctl status mariadb
  mysql_secure_installation
  yum instal icinga2-ido-mysql
  mysql -u root -p \\---------------------> Data base is created
  icinga2 feature enable ido-mysql
  systemctl restart icinga2
  yum install httpd
  systemctl enable httpd
  systemctl start httpd
  mysql -u root -p icinga < /usr/share/icinga2-ido-mysql/schema/mysql.sql
  firewall-cmd --add-service=http
  firerwall-cmd --permanent --add-service=http
  icinga2 api setup
  systemctl restart icinga2
  icinga2 api setup
  vi /etc/icinga2/conf.d/api-users.conf
  systemctl restart icinga2
  systemctl status icinga2
  yum install epel-release
  yum install centos-release-scl
  yum install icingaweb2 icingacli
  yum install httpd
  systemctl start httpd.service
  systemctl enable httpd.service
  systemctl status httpd.service
  systemctl start rh-php71-php-fpm.service
  systemctl enable rh-php71-php-fpm.service
  systemctl status rh-php71-php-fpm.service
  yum install rh-php71-php-mysqlnd
  icingacli setup token create
  icingacli setup token show
  
  
After installation, By using the generated token We can access the front end on the browser after following the below steps.

Open the url http:// /icingaweb2/setup

Enter the generated token and click next.

Now next page will open with different modules, A On the Modules page, select modules you want to enable (at least, the Monitoring module is required), and then click the "Next" button.

Next page will be opened with some errors due to selinux security and and time zone issue during configuration. Those issues can be over-ruled by following steps.

Error: User Information is not writable. Solution: This error is due to selinux security, so do following steps

Error: date.timezone error in /etc/opt/rh/rh-php71/php.ini Solution: This is due to configuration error, can been rectified by changing time zone on mentioned path.

On the Authentication page, you need to choose the authentication method when accessing Icinga Web 2. Here, you can choose Database, and then click the "Next" button.

Now database is configured to store user and user groups. And page looks like following snip.

Credentials updated is follows, Resource Name: icingaweb_db ..Database Type: MySQL ..Host: localhost Database Name: icingaweb2 ..Username:root ..Password:

On the Authentication Backend page, using the default backend name icingaweb2, click the Next button to move on.

Now application and login related configuration is done. .. ..Show Stacktraces: Checked ..User Preference Storage Type: Database ..Logging Type: Syslog ..Logging Level: Error ..Application Prefix: icingaweb2

On the Review page, double check your configuration, and then click the Next button.

On the Monitoring Module Configuration Welcome page, click the Next button.

On the Monitoring Backend page, use the default backend name icinga and backend type IDO, and then click the "Next" button.

On the Monitoring IDO Resource page, input IDO database details you setup earlier, and then click the "Next" button. .. ..Credentials entered is follows Resource Name: icinga_ido ..Database Type: MySQL ..Host: localhost ..Database Name: icinga ..Username: icinga ..Password: icinga

On the Command Transport page, still use these default values listed below. Click the Next button to move on. ..The credentials given are follows, ..Transport Name: icinga2 ..Transport Type: Local Command File ..Command File: /var/run/icinga2/cmd/icinga2.cmd On the Monitoring Security page, still use the default value ..Protected Custom Variables: pw,pass,community ..Now click on Next button to go next page

On the review page, double check your configuration, and then click the Finish button.

On the Congratulations! page, click the Login to Icinga Web 2 button to jump to the Icinga Web 2 login page. Use the Icinga Web 2 administrative account and password you setup earlier to log in. Feel free to explore the Icinga Web 2 dashboard.

Now On icinga2 home page enter the credentials to login.

After logging in, Locally configure host is displayed in icinga2 dashboard with all utilities.
